# Theme Juice
Command line interface to scaffold out a new WordPress development environment and countless sites. Everybody loves one command setups, and `tj` even does deployments.

## Installation
* First, install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) for local development.
* Then you can run: `$ gem install theme-juice-cli`

That's it!

## Usage

#### List available commands:
List all development sites created by `tj`.
```bash
tj
```

#### Setup VVV: _(This is automatically run when you create your first site)_
This command will setup VVV _only_, it will not prompt you to create a site.
```bash
tj init
```

#### Create a new development site:
Use this to create a new development site. It will automagically set up your entire development environment, including a local development site at `http://<sites-dev-url>.dev` with WordPress installed and a fresh WP database. It will sync up your local site installation with the Vagrant VM. This task will also install and configure Vagrant/VVV into your `~/` directory if it has not already been installed. Site name is optional, as it will be asked for if not given.
```bash
tj create [<site-name>]
```

#### Create a new development site without starter theme:
Use this to create a new development site _without_ a starter theme. This should be used when working on non-new projects. You will go through the setup process and create the necessary files for the VM, including `vvv-hosts`, `vvv-nginx.conf`, and a fresh database. Site name is optional, as it will be asked for if not given.
```bash
tj setup [<site-name>] # Alias for `tj create [<site-name>] --bare`
```

#### Delete a site from the VM: _(Does not remove your local site)_
Use this to remove a site from your development environment. This is only remove files that were generated by `tj`. including the database setup, development url, and shared directories. _It will not touch your local files._
```bash
tj delete <site-name>
```

#### List all sites in the VM:
Use this to list all sites within your development environment that were generated by `tj`.
```bash
tj list
```

#### Watch and compile assets: _(Guard)_
Use this to watch and compile assets with [Guard](https://github.com/guard/guard). This is simply a wrapper for Guard.
```bash
tj watch # Alias for `bundle exec guard #{cmd}`
```

#### Use for managing development environment: _(Vagrant)_
Use this to easily manage your Vagrant development environment. This is simply a wrapper for Vagrant.
```bash
tj vm # Alias for `cd ~/vagrant && vagrant #{cmd}`
```

#### Use for managing vendor dependencies: _(Composer)_
Use this to easily manage your Composer dependencies. This is simply a wrapper for Composer.
```bash
tj vendor # Alias for `composer #{cmd}`
```

#### Use for managing deployment and migration: _(Capistrano)_
Use this to easily manage your deployment and migration with Capistrano. This is simply a wrapper for Capistrano.
```bash
tj server # Alias for `bundle exec cap #{cmd}`
```

## Contributing

1. First, create an [issue](https://github.com/ezekg/theme-juice-cli/issues) for your proposed feature. If it's a bug fix, go right to step 2.
2. [Fork the repository](https://github.com/ezekg/theme-juice-cli/fork).
3. Create a new feature branch. (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
4. Commit your changes. (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
5. Push to the new branch. (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
6. Create a new Pull Request.
